I'm on a mission to find out about
Israel's latest military technology with
the Merkava Mark for the Israeli Defense
Force is pushing the concept of the tank
as far as they can they wanted to beef
up its armor and mobility so the answer
is to get the latest technology an
upgrade on the exterior is one thing
wait until you see what they've done
inside seems to be a lot of room of the
Merc of our tank why I mean we need to
spend a lot of time in the tank and most
tanks are not really comfortable but
they're my goal for each team member as
his own chair everyone inside of them
got their own space and it's really nice
to stiffen more room on the inside
allows the tank to be multi-purpose
mokou before we can carry infantry
inside better field outside battlefield
in large amounts we can also carry medic
and doctor and stretches and everything
while fighting and while using the tank
as a tank the tank is operated by a crew
of four each with their own station and
clearly defined role
this is the driver station in the
Merkava for now the driver has
everything they need steering wheel
gasps all right here very clear views of
what's going on and if you ever need
support no problem the loader can help
him out through the monitor right here
so all he has to do is push a button the
loader can see almost everything and
more than the driver can so they work
together as a team freeing the commander
to do his job the digital communication
system allows the crew to plan missions
navigate share and continuously update
their information about the battlefield
I'd like to tell you all about its full
capabilities but I can't
it's classified I can't say that it
helps the troops tanks and infantry and
air force everyone to communicate with
each other it's much easier to control
the battlefield and the results are by
far much better the secret to the
success of the Merkabah r4 is
connectivity everybody is working
together as one this is the tank
commander stationed he has all of the
information he needs to do all the
tactical decisions that will keep this
tank operational on a battlefield down
here is the gunner station the gunner
has complete access to anything that the
driver might need if he wants to but the
beautiful thing again is everybody is
singing off the same sheet of music
but this tank is not all about
protection its bite is much worse than
its bark
armed with a new 120 millimeter cannon
it has the ability to fire the very
latest multi-purpose high-tech
bunker-busting rounds
the new and improved fire control system
enables easy detection and tracking of
any target even moving targets such as
tanks or helicopters day or night a
mixture of speed accuracy sheer
firepower stops any adversary in their
tracks
the tank is an incredible symbol of
power and strength on the battlefield it
is a fierce weapon of war but with
troops moving into urban environments
the tank faces all kinds of dangers
what's needed is around that offensively
allows the tank to support the troops
yet defensively protects the tank from
almost any threat there's a rumor that
the Israelis have developed a new tank
rom that can do it all so I'm on my way
to a secret testing facility somewhere
south of Tel Aviv
it's a highly sensitive location scarred
with evidence of explosions so sensitive
we've got to be careful where we point
the cameras it's here they test the a
Pam round for a wide range of deadly
situations how scary is it that there
are anti-tank rockets and missiles out
there that can be manned portable and
how big a threat is that to you inside
that vehicle what it's frightening but
when you have the to the tools to deal
with you feel a lot better
Israel military industries or IMI has
developed a PEM to be lethal and
versatile this is the APAP it's a mean
looking around and it gives the tank for
capabilities and one round the a Pam
round can take out anti-tank squads
helicopters bunkers it can even breach
walls with the state-of-the-art
technology inside that timer can choose
precisely when to detonate the charges
creating an incredibly adaptable round
lieutenant colonel
Zeb gross former tank commander was
heavily involved in the a Pam's
development
we found started out as an airburst tank
round to a naval tank crews to deal with
enemy anti-tank swells then while you
develop developing it came across with
the idea of making it a multi-purpose
round by adding an advanced using system
so that it could operate in two modes
either air burst against anti-tank
squads infantry and an impact mode where
it would act like a standard
artillery round or tanker the impact
mode the projectile explodes as it
strikes and it's powerful warhead has
the ability to penetrate fortified
materials and positions
in airburst mode six warheads are
released from the rear of the projectile
above the target each warhead is set to
detonate sequentially at timed intervals
creating a hailstorm of lethal tungsten
fragments capable of shredding body
armor what's more impressive it'll kill
tank killing helicopters
when you look at a conflict like is
going on now in Iraq a low-intensity
conflict with a lot of urban operations
this would be the round of choice
because it can deal with all targets you
just choose the fusing mode that's
appropriate for the target you're
dealing with at the moment coming up I
get to see just how devastating a pan is
you